# briathradair
A repository of Scottish Gaelic language resources, particularly morphosyntactical data.

Tue 09 Feb 2021 15:29:42 GMT 9/2/2021

I am starting this repository as I have always had a passion for 
languages and I want to make this a project that anyone can 
contribute to. I am using the old idea of a grammar to start this 
project with and a mass of data I have put into a spreadsheet over 
a number of years. I used the spreadsheet to help me to learn 
Scottish Gaelic because in that form I could see the grammatical 
patterns more easily. However now I have the data I would like to 
put it into a database which potentially can be accessed by a user-
friendly interface in order to search for Gaelic words, much like a 
dictionary, however without the end goal of translation, at least not 
yet.

Eventually I hope to also create similar databases of other languages 
which can then be mapped to each other for translation purposes.
Gaelic is the first language I would like to do this for however as 
it is one that I am currently learning and have a great love for, and 
also because it is a very grammatically regular language.

I would also find it very interesting to see if natural language 
grammar could potentially be mapped onto a programming language, 
which is also why I think that the GitHub platform is useful for this 
kind of project. I am a relative beginner with databases but I will 
be using mySQL as this is also something I am interested in learning 
about with regard to website development.

Please do have a look at the repository and submit any pull requests. 
Fluent Gaelic speakers are also very much encouraged to provide 
feedback and corrections.

As I build it up I will be adding more to the knowledge base and 
updating the ReadMe as required.
